"doge coin" redirects here. For coinage issued by the Venetian Dogate, see coinage of the Republic of Venice.
Dogecoin

Official logo of Dogecoin
Denominations
Symbol	Ð
Code	DOGE
Development
Original author(s)	Billy Markus, Jackson Palmer
Initial release	December 6, 2013; 9 years ago
Development status	Active
Operating system	Microsoft Windows,
Linux,
iOS,
Android
Developer(s)	Billy Markus ("Shibetoshi Nakamoto"), Michi Lumin, Ross Nicoll
Source model	FOSS
License	MIT License
Ledger
Timestamping scheme	Proof-of-work
Hash function	Scrypt-based
Block reward	Ð10,000
Block time	1 minute
Block explorer	https://dogechain.info/
Supply limit	Unlimited Exactly Ð5 billion will enter circulation each year.
Valuation
Exchange rate	Floating (very volatile)
Website
Website	https://dogecoin.com/
Dogecoin (/ˈdoʊIt was introduced on December 6, 2013, and quickly developed its own online community, reaching a peak market capitalization of over US$85 billion[a] on May 5, 2021. As of 2021, it is the sleeve sponsor[b] of Watford Football Club.[8](d)ʒkɔɪn/ DOHJ-koyn or DOHZH-koyn, Abbreviation: DOGE; sign: Ð) is a cryptocurrency created by software engineers Billy Markus and Jackson Palmer, who decided to create a payment system as a "joke", making fun of the wild speculation in cryptocurrencies at the time. It is considered both the first "meme coin", and more specifically the first "dog coin". Despite its satirical nature, some consider it a legitimate investment prospect. Dogecoin features the face of the Shiba Inu dog from the "doge" meme as its logo and namesake.

Dogecoin.com promotes the currency as the "fun and friendly Internet currency", referencing its origins as a "joke". Software engineers Billy Markus and Jackson Palmer launched the satirical cryptocurrency as a way to make fun of Bitcoin and the many other cryptocurrencies boasting grand plans to take over the world. With the help of Reddit, the site became an instant hit. Within two weeks, Dogecoin had established a dedicated blog and forum, and its market value reached $8 million, once jumping to become the seventh largest electronic currency in the world. Dogecoin is based on Scrypt algorithm.